
h1. Common Alignment Stats

Calculated for one or more bam file.

h2. Current Stats:

h3. name              

Sample name. If two bam files have the same name,
name will be appended by incrementing integer

h3. single_mapped_reads

Number of reads from the fastq file that align 
to only one location in the reference genome.
Found by counting number of reads with NH:i:1

h3. single_mapped_reads_percent

single_mapped_reads / total_alignable_reads

h3. multi_mapped_reads

Number of reads from the fastq file that align 
to multiple locations in the reference genome

h3. multi_mapped_reads_percent

multi_mapped_reads / total_alignable_reads
h3. total_alignable_reads

single_mapped_reads + multi_mapped_reads

h3. primary_alignments

Count of total uniquely named alignments in bam file. 
Each alignable read is counted once for this measure. 
This is really just Total alignable reads, but 
described in the context of the alignment.

h3. secondary_alignments

Count of Additional alignments in bam file from 
multi-mapped reads.
Found by looking for 0x100 flag in alignments

h3. total_alignments

primary_alignments + secondary_alignments.

h3. total_reads_in_bam

Total number of lines in bam file. For a bam
file that does not include unaligned data, 
this should be the same as total_alignments

h3. unique_positions

Total number of unique alignment positions found
for alignments in bam file. 
Assumes bam file is position sorted.

h2. Timing

Currently bam_stats can analyze 80,000 reads per second. Compare this to a standard @samtools view@ of all reads, which can be done at around 280,000 reads per second. 


|reads|bam_stats|wc|bam_stats/sec|wc/sec|
41786101|516.94|147|80,834|284,259|
108153984|1279.62|402|84,520|269,040|
31279258|371.85|115|84,118|271,994|
235991688|2785|842|84,737|280,275|

